[FEATURE] Update backend module registration and API (#1711)
TYPO3-Documentation/TYPO3CMS-Reference-CoreApi: Documentation/ExtensionArchitecture/HowTo/BackendModule/ModuleConfiguration.rst

.. include:: /Includes.rst.txt
.. index::
   Backend modules; configuration
   File; Configuration/Backend/Modules.php
.. _backend-modules-configuration:

============================
Backend module configuration
============================

.. versionchanged:: 12.0

>    Registration of backend modules was changed with Version 12. If you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Registration of backend modules was changed with version 12. If you are
```

>    using another version of TYPO3 please use the version switcher on the top

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   using an older version of TYPO3 please use the version switcher on the top
```

   left of this document to go to the respective version.

The configuration of backend modules is placed in the
dedicated :file:`Configuration/Backend/Modules.php` configuration file.

> Those files are then read and processed when building the container. This

Reviewer: Would prefer a note for this paragraph to highlight the importance.

           'access' => 'user',
           'workspaces' => 'live',
           'path' => '/module/page/example',
           'labels' => 'LLL:EXT:examples/Resources/Private/Language/Module/locallang_mod.xlf',
           'extensionName' => 'Examples',
           'controllerActions' => [
               ModuleController::class => [
                   'flash','tree','clipboard','links','fileReference','fileReferenceCreate',
               ],
           ],
       ],
       'admin_examples' => [
           'parent' => 'system',
           'position' => ['top'],
           'access' => 'user',
           'workspaces' => 'live',
           'path' => '/module/system/example',
           'labels' => 'LLL:EXT:examples/Resources/Private/Language/AdminModule/locallang_mod.xlf',
           'extensionName' => 'Examples',
           'controllerActions' => [
               AdminModuleController::class => [
                   'index',
               ],
           ],
       ],
   ];

Module configuration options
============================

.. confval:: parent

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

   If the module should be a submodule, the parent identifier, for example `web`

>    has to be set here. You can find a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   has to be set here. Have a look into the
```

   :ref:`list of available toplevel modules. <backend-modules-toplevel-module>`

>    Extensions can add additional parent modules by defining

Reviewer: This is not really correct. I can add also new parent modules with submodules, not only standalone modules (like dashboard).

   :confval:`standalone` modules.

.. confval:: path

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

>    :Default: `/module/<mainModue>/<subModule>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :Default: `/module/<mainModule>/<subModule>`
```

   Define the path to the default endpoint. The path can be anything, but

>    will fallback to the known  `/module/<mainModue>/<subModule>` pattern,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   will fallback to the known  `/module/<mainModule>/<subModule>` pattern,
```

.. confval:: icon

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

   Path to a module icon (Deprecated: Use :confval:`iconIdentifier` instead)

.. confval:: labels

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: array or string

   An :php:`array` with the following keys:

   -  `title`
   -  `description`
   -  `shortDescription`

   The value can either be a static string or a locallang label reference.                                                       |

   It is also possible to define the path to a locallang file.
   The referenced file should contain the following label keys:

   -  `mlang_tabs_tab` (Used as module title)
   -  `mlang_labels_tabdescr` (Used as module description)
   -  `mlang_labels_tablabel` (Used as module short description)

.. confval:: component

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string
   :Default: TYPO3/CMS/Backend/Module/Iframe

   The view component, responsible for rendering the module.

.. confval:: navigationComponent

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

   The module navigation component. The following are provided by the Core:

   `TYPO3/CMS/Backend/PageTree/PageTreeElement`

>       The page tree as used in the Web module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The page tree as used in the :guilabel:`Web` module.
```

   `TYPO3/CMS/Backend/Tree/FileStorageTreeContainer`

>       The file tree as used in the Filelist module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The file tree as used in the :guilabel:`Filelist` module.
```

.. confval:: navigationComponentId

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

   The module navigation component (Deprecated: Use
   :confval:`navigationComponent`)

.. confval:: inheritNavigationComponentFromMainModule

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: bool
   :Default: true

   Whether the module should use the parents navigation component.
   This option defaults to :php:`true` and can therefore be used to

>    stop the inheritance for sub modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   stop the inheritance for submodules.
```

.. confval:: moduleData

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: array

   All properties of the :ref:`module data object <backend-Module-data-object>`
   that may be overridden by :php:`GET` / :php:`POST` parameters of the request
   get their default value defined here.

   **Example**

   .. code-block:: php
      :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/Backend/Modules.php

      'moduleData' => [
          'allowedProperty' => '',
          'anotherAllowedProperty' => true,
      ],

Default module configuration options (without Extbase)
------------------------------------------------------

.. confval:: routes

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: array

   Define the routes to this module. Each route requires a `path` and
   the `target`, except the mandatory `_default` route, which uses
   the `path` from the top-level configuration:

   .. code-block:: php
      :caption: EXT:my_extension/Configuration/Backend/Modules.php

      routes' => [
          '_default' => [
              'target' => MyController::class . '::handleRequest',
          ],
      ],

   .. note::

>       Using additional routes - next to `_default` is not yet implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Using additional routes - next to `_default` - is not yet implemented.
```

.. _backend-modules-api-extbase:

Extbase module configuration options
------------------------------------

.. confval:: extensionName

   :Scope: Backend module configuration
   :type: string

>    The extension name in UpperCamelCase, the module is registered for. If the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The extension name in UpperCamelCase for which the module is registered. If the
```
